---
layout: page
title: Jaipur and Agra, India
cover-img: ["/assets/img/Agra/IMG_E3702.jpg","/assets/img/Agra/IMG_8350.jpg","/assets/img/Agra/IMG_7199.jpg"]
#full-width: true
---

Travelling has always been my favourite pastime and interest. In the last few years I have travelled through different parts of Europe, but it has always been in my mind to travel and explore different parts of our Incredible India. Since, Bangalore is my home town I have travelled far and wide through the states in the south. I have always waited for an opportunity to travel to different states and cities in the north. Places like Jaipur, Udaipur, Agra, Manali, Shimla, etc. are among some of the must visit places in my bucket list. I have always had that inclination to visit Jaipur and Agra, because of its historical and enthralling projection in books and movies, I had always wanted to explore it and find it out myself. In December last year I got an opportunity to visit these places along with my friends. After the visit, I would gladly tell that Jaipur is certainly spectacular and one of the most remarkable places I have visited.


### Day 1

We had our flight early in the morning of December when the weather is pretty brisk. We arrived at the airport well in time and waiting to board the plane, we decided to sip on some hot coffee in the cozy weather of Bangalore. It was time for us to board and the flying time to our destination was two and half hours. Our arrival to Jaipur was on schedule and having collected our bag we walked out of the airport to see a beautiful sunny day which made us all excited. Not wasting much of our time we boarded a taxi and left to our stay [Hilton Jaipur](https://www.hilton.com/en/hotels/jaighhi-hilton-jaipur/?WT.mc_id=zELWAKN0APAC1HI2DMH3LocalSearch4DGGenericx6JAIGHHI). Which was around 18 minutes travel. We were again lucky to have got reservations at Hilton through [Booking.com](https://www.booking.com/); I guess we could not have found a better place to stay. Their luxurious rooms, a lavish spread of breakfast buffet and great collection of white and, red wines just impressed me the most (Recommended stay at Jaipur).

After all the early morning travel, I was feeling a bit exhausted in the beginning but I was still anxious to explore the city. So, we quickly got freshened up and left to explore some places which are in and around our stay. To start with we made a plan to list all the places close to our hotel and so first visited Hawa Mahal which was around 3km from our hotel. It’s a historic and marvelous five storied façade built in 1799 and situated in the heart of the Old City. Its pink and red color sandstone makes the whole structure gorgeous and fascinating to look at. The best panoramic view of the city and palace can be got from a cafe which is just located opposite to it.

After exploring this magnanimous beauty we took a rickshaw to the city palace. It is a huge complex of palaces and out of which only a few of them (Mubarak Mahal, Pritam Niwas Chowk and Diwan-i-Aam) are open to the public. Exploring these palaces took us a long time and by the end of it, we were all very exhausted and so decided to quit for the day. We then left back to our stay all tired and hungry. Back in the hotel we had dinner and then went to bed.

### Day 2

The next day we had planned to visit Agra to see one of the most majestic and remarkable monuments of the world, the [Taj Mahal](https://whc.unesco.org/en/list/252/). The Taj Mahal is considered as the most famous and iconic structure in India. This grand marvel built with white marble is among the Seven Wonders of the World.  Since Jaipur to Agra is around 250 km and requires about 3 to 4 hours by road, we decided to leave early in the morning. We woke up early and quickly got ready for the day, later which we hired a private taxi to drive us from our stay to the Taj Mahal. However, due to dense fog conditions and low visibility on the roads we could only start our journey at 8 in the morning. After four long hour drive, we finally reached Agra at 2 pm in the afternoon, but sadly we had only few hours to admire and explore this magnificent mausoleum. We took the east side entrance, and instead of walking under the torrid sun we took a tuk-tuk to the ticket counter. I personally feel it is better not to hire a guide as they are expensive, it would rather be better to Google and explore the place yourself. We spent a few hours gazing at the structure and throughout we were amazed with its beauty and elegance.

After exploring the whole surrounding for hours we realised it was already 5 in the evening and we had to leave back to Jaipur. Just then we come across a little known fact about the viewing spot of Taj Mahal called Mehtab Bagh, which exists just opposite to the monument on the northern shores of the Yamuna River. It was almost past five and they were about to close, but we were just in time to sneak in and buy our tickets. The Mehtab Bagh is a garden which lies to the north Taj Mahal and offers pretty spectacular views of it. After this amazing experience we headed back to Jaipur. With no food the whole day, we were hungry and had to stop somewhere on the way back for dinner. After having some delicious and filling thali at Motel Gangour for dinner, we reached our hotel late in the night after which all of us went on to bed. The whole day trip with an experienced driver / (partial) guide costed us about (5500 INR).

### Final Day

The third day in the morning we started around 9:30AM and went first to Nahargarh Fort. This is the best place to view the splendid beauty of the Pink City. The way it overlooks the rest of the city makes this fort one of Jaipur’s most scenic and most visited places. After having a panoramic view of the city, we left to the next place on our list, the Jaigarh fort.  This is one recommended spot with a scenic view that should not be missed. It is said to be an unconquerable fort and it offers an amazing view of the surrounding plains. After a quick look around of Jaigarh fort, we visited Jal Mahal, which lies in the centre of ManSagar Lake.

After all this vivid travel in the scorching heat, we were very tired and hungry. Our quench for some cold and soothing drink took us to this awesome lassi shop called [Lassiwala](https://www.google.com/search?q=lassiwala&oq=lassiwala&aqs=chrome..69i57j46j0l2j46j0j46l2.1854j0j1&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8). Though this place is small it offers the best lassi in the town, and along with it, we also had some chats to beat our hunger. The best part of Hilton Jaipur was the free drinks and snack they offer at the lounge every evening. Spending some time at the lounge and having light snacks we went out for dinner to a place called the Forresta kitchen. After a satisfying supper we headed our way back to our hotel looking for some sound sleep.



